Throughout this course, we will be referring to the demo application.
The code is in the following GitHub repository if you want to follow along,
or you can download it through the Exercise Files tab in this course.
As you're probably already aware of,
the fastest way to get a Spring Boot web application up and
running is to use the Spring Initializer web page.
Put in your details,
add the dependencies you need, and simply download the project scaffolding.
Now I'm using Spring Tool Suite so I can actually do it straight from my IDE.
Let's create a simple controller with a greeting.
Now if we run this application,
we can see the greeting. Great. Now because we're using Spring Boot,
all that we have to do to add security into our new application is to
add this Spring Boot starter dependency.
Now if we restart our application, voila.
Spring Boot has configured Spring Security, and here
we have this bland login page.
Now by default,
Spring Boot even configures a test user for us. The username is user,
and the password is actually printed in the log.
Awesome, right? Now this is far from production‑ready,
but neither is our web application.
Spring Boot has essentially configured the default implementation of
Spring Security that we can now customize and build on top of to meet
our unique application security requirements. Next, let's take a look at what Spring Boot configured and how it did it.